---
title: A new hope
date: 2016-04-01 06:14:09 -07:00
tags:
- java
- iso
layout: post
excerpt: 
---

As you may already know, last C++ standarization committee meeting in Jacksonville
decided what items will be part of the C++17 standard, what other will be Technical
Specifications, and want others were rejected at all.

I had a lot of hope in C++17. A lot new of cool features, Concepts, Modules, Coroutines;
were promised to us. But nothing was approved. This is no longer a major release but a minor
one. Also, WTF is a Technical Specification?

That's it. I no longer trust C++.

I was proud I joined the Spanish standarization body this February, but no longer I'm. Actually,
it's one of the worst descissions I have done in my career.  
Seriously, the whole process was annoying: A day of sect-like tests such as walking on fire and 
reciting Standard paragraphs from my head like if it was the damn Holy Bible, with other
committee members around me dressing like Gandalf or something. Trust me, it was
so disgusting.

That said, I'm happy to announce I have been talking several weeks to join the JCP Executive Committee. 
This is awesome! I would be able to join a business-directed language committee! 
I hope I would enjoy a lot the following years refining one of the best examples of software engineering
in the world, an example of why pure object orientation, fake functional programming, and
SimpleAndConsiceAPIsThatWorkGreatWithEightyColumnWrapping are the right way to go.


I have a new Hope().
